So Dave Robinson did a kind of like live analysis of this like dog breed data and he made a Shiny
app out of it. So maybe I can walk through what it looks like in PyShiny and just try to translate
some of that to PyShiny. So I watched him work with this data so I know a little bit about it
and for some context there's I think there's a little bit of cleaning that has to happen
and then some reshaping. The interesting thing so is I understand there's three pieces of data
you have these breed traits so this is um for each breed of dog uh it's like ranked or it's
I think it's rated on a number of things like how good are you with young children apparently
retrievers are really good Norwegian Lundhunds are not not the best. Then there's the trait
description I think this is a pretty wild one uh this is um just written out description so
and I actually love this like um so for affectionate with family if you get a five it means
you're lovey-dovey which I find to be just great so a yeah so retrievers lovey-dovey and then breed
rank all is um this is a little bit different this is like from 2013 to 2020 or 2020 um rankings
of the dogs basically over time what we can look at is maybe like comparing dogs across traits
and working on like a shiny app that lets you kind of like because there are a lot of dogs
here if you look in the breed traits so it'd be nice if a user could choose the dogs they want
to look at and be able to compare them in a plot there's a little bit of wrangling here's a weird
thing I can either wrangle it in suba or pandas for me suba is the most fun so um
and I'm pretty used to it so basically this is a port of
anything from dplyr to python and I've kind of come to rely on it as a thing that just kind of
like wraps pandas and does a little bit on top of pandas to make life a little easier so
the way it works is um pretty similar to dplyr with a couple twists so um for example like if
I want to find a dog that's not very affectionate uh with family these columns are crazy I might
have to fix that but um I could do like where it's one you know so okay so like the anatolian
shepherd dogs apparently they're very uh like independent so the key with suba is that um
like with dplyr it would look like pretty similar you'd have a pipe and then you'd have like
this just by itself like this so the big differences are um now the pipe like a
greater than greater than sign and we're using like an underscore rather than referring to the
columns um directly uh this is just because it's way easier for me to just keep thinking in dplyr
than to kind of switch um and it's not that different from pandas pandas would be like
breed traits affectionate with family and then you'd do something like this there are a few
ways to do it um so it's kind of like there's always like a pretty simple like pretty the
translations to pandas aren't crazy but it just cuts out some writing basically the other useful
things and i'm cheating because i saw dave work this with this but um for reshaping uh it'd be
nice to tidy this so that um a lot of these columns become uh to go from wider to longer so
it'd be nice if like a lot of these were a column called measure and then these things were a column
called say value um one of the big things we have to do though is that this like these are all
numeric so there it makes sense that we could reshape them we've got to drop things like this
that are use a different uh uh kind of measurement so i'll do select
um and i'll use the minus sign to remove things actually first i'm gonna i think clean up these
column names so there's a pi janitor library which is nice that can clean names or i guess we can um
see it'd be something like
it'd be something like
uh i always forget how to do this i think you could do something like
this is crazy but um
i think this will do basically to sneak case let's see did something bad columns
yeah so this is pretty gnarly pandas code but the trick is that um
this gives you back uh index of columns and then indexes and series and pandas have these string
methods so you do like string dot lower and then you can kind of like keep going
so this is i would probably just use in other situations maybe pi janitor like it's nice in
the tidyverse there's just a clean names function um to get rid of a lot of this but i'm just gonna
um you define it here oh that's bad uh
just gonna put it here i'm i think i'll just mutate it uh because life's too short so
um that should do it and i'll just return it um
and uh so this black i have black formatting setup which is kind of weird i might turn it off
but um oh this is bad i got a
auto format code and save the notebook i think that's what i'm gonna do
oh this is bad i got a
auto format code and save the notebook i think that'll do it
um let's see do you want one okay we're back all right sorry so that's weird
um so that's what's doing a lot of this formatting um i don't really know the weird
thing between r and python is i'm not really sure how to r it's kind of nice you can like quickly
one funky thing about python is to do the pipes with nice format you kind of gotta um
use these parentheses around them um so i'm just gonna pipe this uh using this panda's method
um sorry this is kind of crazy
so it's great so now we've got nice formatted names um
and all of that's just so in this select i can now
uh just drop using like code type and drop code length
okay so i think now we have everything and we can reshape so what i'll do is um
gather it uh which so the first argument is the name of the new column that all of these will be
put in so these names and then the measure column and then i think that we just say everything we
want so negative means we want everything except for the breed column to be reshaped
so now we've gathered me
now we've taken all these columns and basically like right i don't know i don't know how to use
human words for that but um so now each each measure is right here so each of these cells
and now the columns are in this measure column um this will be useful for the app
because i'm gonna call this traits long i guess um is that this makes it a lot easier to select
things um now we can just filter to keep specific columns or filter to keep specific uh breeds so i
think that's the big d player thing is like before we could filter by breed or select a
column the beauty of gathering is now we can filter either of these things breeder um measure
i'm going to rename measure to trade so all right great so now we have this data um we can visualize
it i'm going to use um plot nine so plot nine is a port of uh ggplot2 um it's super nice i think
it's been around for a long time and it's a super faithful port so basically all of this is me
trying to like squint my eyes and produce uh what seems like tidyverse code um so all right so
um let's see let's just
traits long
uh ggplot so i'm going to uh actually we need to filter it probably so let's get just
maybe a couple breeds
so i'm going to use the panda's method is in so that's like
get it from this list so let's say labrador retriever scared french bull dogs
i'll double check that worked oh something bad happened let me
see i wonder if this is a little bit um
need to somehow see it as a list i think that okay so this is a weird thing uh this is a great
data wrangling problem uh i don't this is a character that appears as a space but is it uh
i don't sometimes you can google these things and it'll show people will explain like what
is happening but usually just string replace them so um let's see i i'm just gonna do it
yeah i'm just gonna call it like remove or replace space or something
like a column wait i don't care i'm just gonna put in the mutate okay so
uh let's put it here for now just to see um so we selected we gathered let's just replace it here
and see how this goes date um three equals uh string replace uh i think it's just this character
and then let's see if this works
okay so yeah visibly like no change but i'm guessing this will let us
let's see yeah great that was a real scary issue uh cool okay so this got it and then
so i'm gonna filter maybe um i'm just gonna keep
say like affectionate family and good with young children
okay i'm gonna so um can black format this
um it's using this um jupyter what's it called jupyter code formatter library
um cool so now we've got two traits two dog breeds we can plot it so you plot
you plot uh on the x-axis probably trait
y-axis probably value and then i'm gonna um make a bar chart and then
i'm gonna make breed its own plot let's make that oh something bad happened
uh oh i'm sorry geom bar counts up the values geom call makes a
column okay so this isn't super exciting they're fives on both of these uh but this is maybe a
nice example because there's a lot of room for improvement so uh one thing i like to do is um
you fill the breed or the trait um this just kind of like recodes this information but makes it
easier to see and then um the other weird thing is this text is horizontal so we can um
change it in the theme i think it's like axis
axis text x and then this kind of tricky ggplot thing element text angles 45
um and then the last thing this is probably the most common thing i do in ggplot is um
notice that it it kind of be nice if this end character like matched up with this
and i think that's just h just equals one i don't even honestly these this is
like this very snippet i use so much that i just like reflexively
slam it every time um so okay so we've got plots uh we did like a little bit of cleaning
a little reshaping um i think so this is something dave did i think it's like perfect
like this would be a nice kind of like starter for a shiny app like we did like a little analysis
we made our plot um but now it would be so nice if we basically could um select the breeds and
select the traits there's this weird thing like if you watch people build shiny apps actually i
think the most intriguing part is they often have like analysis code somewhere and then like shiny
app code i think this is actually one of the hardest parts of starting with shiny is the
workflow like having your analysis on one side and your app on the other type juby text no i don't
let me install this really fast uh what i often end up doing is um text so this is the code um
what i can do is um say juby text one thing i like to do sometimes is i just put the shiny
app at the bottom of the notebook so um and the way i do this is um you can pair the notebook
with something called light script and notice that when i save it it produces a python file
so now what happens is like basically i just want to keep exploring but i'm gonna tuck a shiny app
like down below i don't know if this is a good idea or if it'll even work but um
and i'm gonna add a section like exploration okay so now the trick is that now i have my
exploration code up here and jupyter lab has this nice um table of contents so i just marked like oh
this is my exploration code this is my app so i can jump between them and then uh what i'm gonna
do is i'll just scaffold out like a really tiny shiny app and then i'll just run the whole script
um because like life's too short i just i i kind of want to just do the exploration in the app in
the same place uh i'm gonna copy out maybe from the i mean this link won't exist in a month but um
which is this tiny app
uh okay so so the key is like this doesn't do anything really because shiny needs the cli the
command line interface to run but it's kind of nice like it's all in a notebook and then what
i'll do is um i'll run it separately uh so you could also do this in the jupyter lab
terminal that might be a good i should down there but um
dog app so i'm just gonna run oh i don't remember how the cli works uh
shiny run i think i'll keep looking at the help docs uh so the thing is i i want to run shiny
run but then i also want to run this reload so that it auto reloads the so shiny run
analysis.py and reload okay i might need to also set the port depending on okay so basically what's
happening now is it it executed this notebook so just just to back up this notebook through
jupytex is now saved also as a python file every time i click save it syncs with the python file
um shiny cli is just running that file and the reason that's useful to me is i'll just put like
a lot of exploration code in here and i'll define the app down here and then i'll just check over
here to see like what the app looks like so all right and it's kind of convenient because a lot
of shiny apps i just dump this stuff straight in you know i can like kind of like dump it in and
then i can clean it up and move it into its own file if it's useful so like for example we already
have traits long so i could just even put this in let's do like a render uh let's see return like
traits long i think that uh so where we are right now is that um rendering tables is still a little
bit is in the works but um so right now it's rendered as a ui uh let's just see what happens
why don't i just i'll drop in the plot instead so uh let's see so i'm just gonna dump in this plot
code uh just paste it in
um put this here uh and i think this should just show up i'll do render plot
output plot i'll change this this isn't a table anymore this is like a
trait graph this trait graph see i love it still has this rogue input so um i'm not seeing anything
and that tells me probably that there's an error or something so i'll look here i don't see anything
it's probably something i did i think the i didn't return it all right so this is the graph we have
this kind of useless input now we have this like hard-coded thing um what i'd probably do next is
i'd like swap out these hard-coded things for a like dynamic input so um you do input ink it
select ties and i'm gonna call this traits and so this is the label that'll show up on the input
and then uh so many options choices here so we can do is multiple equals true
choices equals what we could do here is we could actually set these as the choices to start
just to make sure things wire up um let's just see that it worked cool so the choices are here
they're not wired up yet but this is a kind of a nice i think for me sanity check that
it's like ready to go and so now i'll just swap out this for um input dot
traits so this thing here just to link it up all right so yeah so the move was kind of like i
set the choices i copied the choices from here to here and then i like swapped in the interactive
piece uh cool so now we can see like i can toggle it which is great um this is still kind of boring
because i just hard-coded two choices so the a nice move here is you can actually just hard code
the choices based off the data so if i go to like traits long dot traits unique let's show this
it's trait okay so this just gets me each unique trait um and then the last thing i need is shiny
i think wants it as a list so i'll just use this panda's method to list um so what i'll do is i'll
probably do like um options traits or something trait
options trait
so now it's all of the traits um data so now we can see like for a french bulldog or retriever
um different uh things i don't want to make this little bigger um
nice so we have the traits wired up uh let me go ahead and try to um
set the breeds now so
so uh i'm just going to do the exact same thing but drop in breed
so i'm going to put this trait maybe and paste in the exact same thing
and then because it worked out okay for the other i'm just going to jump straight to it input dot
breeds so this is not right uh so i did something bad let's see oh i put the traits here so
options breed yeah that's cool i'm partial to beagles do we got corgis
we got we got multiple kinds
yeah i love that pembroke what welsh corgis seem a little
more affectionate you know cardigan welsh corgi is a little bit too independent i don't know
um yeah that's nice i think the autocomplete is great like um being able to search super fast
you